kind of a diner place. There was a county truck,
gravel truck like, a big truck. And there were some
guys standing around there arguing and some other
guys came from inside arguing and they were
shouting back and forth at each other as we pulled
up. And Carroll turned to me and he said, I don't
want you to say a word. You talk funny and I don't
want these people to have any trouble with us. I
thought that was pretty instructive. But the
other funny word was,
funny way they talk here was again in that first
year, I had a close association with the town of
Mahea,
okay? One of their sons, are you ready for a long
story here? One of their sons had gone off, he was a
homosexual. He was a scion of a old family, long
time family there. He'd gone off to New York City,
got in dramatics, got fairly famous and well to do,
came back fairly rich, decided to come back to the
old hometown and retire. And then he decided he
wanted to resurrect the old Poco Grounds. It was
the Pure Oil Company, P-O-C-O. It was on the
Confederate Reunion Grounds on Jack's Creek. And
he got hold of me because he had read about this
department. He wanted me to come up and help him
design a tourist attraction on Jack's Creek by
taking some of the pure oil storage tanks, huge
things, and renovating them inside, air
conditioning them, making a stage inside, and
recreating the history of the plantation era
inside the oil tank, okay? That was his dream. So I
went up several times. In fact, he did develop
enough support that they cleaned up some of the
old, reunion grounds there on Jack's Creek and and
they found some of the bathhouse steps that went
down to the creek that the people in their parasols
had come and Governor Conley came one night the
night I'm speaking of after he'd been at another
meeting they had him as head speaker to dedicate
this thing during his governorship he got there
late everybody else had finished the barbecue and
he pulled in it was after dark the lanterns were on
and he sat down and ate barbecue by himself at this
whole head table with a hundred people watching
him eat not saying a word just i'm going to eat
before i talk and it was the strangest thing to me
that a person would come in and have the Courage, I
guess, or the sense to just stand there and eat. But
the thing about Mejia was, my wife went up with me
that night, and she was trying to read the map. I'd
been there a couple times already with this guy,
and so I knew where I was going, but Dot was looking
at the map. And I said, we want to go to Mejia. We've
got to go up through Calvert, her and Calvert, and
on up. And she said, I can't find it. I can't find it.
I can't find it. And that was the reason, because
she was looking for Mexia, and it's M-E-X-I-A. In
fact, I found when you're up there and talking to
those people, it's Mehair. Mehair. Not Mehea. But
yeah, that was one of the first times that I saw that
there was a different language down here. I'm
getting close to the end of the things I've thought
of. Are there some people that you would like to
thank that we haven't mentioned? Well, you know, I
didn't give much credence to Wayne Hall, but
certainly he was one that did support me in this
whole organization thing at the start of this.
Gosh, I'm sure there's just... I think Wayne Hall
is one of the underappreciated people here that he
did more... He was just a quiet gentleman. Quiet.
And I've learned that Mr. Rutter on academic
matters would listen to him. And among other
things, I've learned that he's the one that
thought up the name of this institution as it is now
phrased. Really? Mr. Rutter, we recommended
Texas State University. Mr. Rutter would not
stand that at all. He didn't want to lose A&M. And so
instead of the Agricultural Mechanical College
of Texas or Texas State University, he came up with
Texas A&M University. Without the letters. Which
I think has worked pretty well. Yeah, excellent.
Others you'd like to... appreciation
josh haskell i'd just have to all right you may
think of those later before we edit it uh some proud
moments that we haven't mentioned proud personal
moments
Never had a proud moment in my life. Okay.
Then two last things. Let's make believe that
someone walks up to you in the next few days and
hands you a check for a million dollars, but it's
payable to Texas A&M University, but you've got to
decide what is done with it. Oh, wow. What would you
want? If you had the capacity to give A&M a big sum of
money, what would you want that used for? A
million's not big money anymore now when MIT gets
350 million to study the brain.
I'd really have to think about that, but I suspect
it would in some way be
leveraged to help students. because the
financial thing has got out of hand so much lately
that I don't see how people are paying it. And so
much, it seems to me, that comes to the university
comes for personal aggrandizement
that's short term. Do you remember over in the MSC
originally when Who was it, the Scotsman that went
down to Mexico and had that beautiful circular rug
woven with the A&M logo in the middle of it? I don't
know where that rug is now. Think about that. I
don't either. And how many buildings have been
named and then the names changed when a bigger gift
comes in. And so many of these things really don't
benefit the students. How would you want the
student, the winners, how would you want the
recipients to be selected? I don't know what, I'm
not sure that I would want it to be individual
selection or instead some mechanism that would
uh... benefit a larger number i'd really have to
think about that i'm not certain that a university
like this is well that's just way off the subject
what i was going to say was whether there's any
sense in trying to maintain universities in this
form of a pile of bricks and mortar at a single
location when we're entering into a time when With
distance education and computers, we can maybe do
a better job without babysitting people for four
to six years to come and be at a specific location
away from home. Maybe it serves some social
purposes other than education, but I'm not sure
this is the best way to do education. Boy, that's
not a way to answer your question about how do you
spend a million dollars. Last question, what
feelings do you have for Texas A&M in your heart
now, after a third of a century? That sounds so
long. I'm
just really thankful to God that I had the
opportunity to come here.
It's been a good life. I think the university
treated me more fairly than I probably deserved.
And it was a great location to rear a family. And
they've become staunch Texans even though
neither of them are living in the state right now.
If your machine were off, I'd say I'd like to have a
lot closer relation with the, department than I
have currently. And maybe I will again, but I've
backed way off in order not to make it appear
confrontational. And if that means moving out of
here for a while, I'm willing to do that. Dorothy's
saying, keep that at all costs. I said, no, it's not
that important. There's other things that are
more important. But I've gained lifelong friends
and colleagues that I treasure from being here
that length of time. I don't think for people in the
future they will, well you've even moved around
more than I have. I mean I came here and I've been
here ever since and you've gone on and done some
great things at other places. before coming back
here, but I think it's going to become more of a
rarity for people to stay half a century or a third
of a century in one job or one location. We've
taught for years about serial occupations,
careers.
I think A&M has changed. tremendously in that
length of time, but I think the school has stayed
true to its traditions and its origins in a lot of
ways that are going to serve it well in the future.